.\" $Id: pnpsender.1 553 2008-11-07 21:33:50Z Le_Loup $
.\"
.\"
.TH "pnpsender" "1" "linux-gnu" "pnpsender-v0.1"

.SH "NAME"
pnpsender \- sending nagios environment vars in XML format via network

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBpnpsender\fR -H <host ip address> [-p <serverport>] -d <datatype> [-t <timeout>]
.\"pnpsender -H <serverip> [-p <serverport>] -d <datatype> -t <timeout>

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBpnpsender\fR is a small binary tool written for nagios to read in the nagios 
environment, put it into XML format and send it through a tcp network connection
to a receiver.
.LP
This receiver might be whatever you want. 
.LP
Actually it is designed to send data to an internet superdaemon like inetd or xinetd.

.SH "OPTIONS"
\fBpnpsender\fR 
.TP 8
-H
IP Address in a.b.c.d format of the receiver.
.TP
-p
Port Number the receiver listens for incoming data.
.TP
-d
Identifier for the receiver. Here you may use whatever you think is useful. Might be use for "perfdata", "ocsp", "ochp", "foo", "bar"

.SH "RECEIVER"
As mentioned above the receiver just must open a tcp network port and reads the data from \fBpnpsender\fR.
.LP
In our tested config examples we are using the xinetd to handle the network socket.
.LP

.SH "XINETD howto"
Edit your \fI/etc/services\fR (or similar) to add a new service to port definition, like this:
.TP
pnp           
5660/tcp        # performance data from pnpsender
.LP
After this add the following xinetd config (normally in \fI/etc/xinetd.d/\fR)
.TP
service net2pnp
{
        disable         = no
        socket_type     = stream
        protocol        = tcp
        port            = 5660
        wait            = no
        user            = nagios
        cps             = 150 10
        bind            = 127.0.0.1
        server          = /usr/local/nagios/libexec/process_perfdata.pl
        server_args     = --inetd
 }
.LP
As you can see for server there is the PNP (http://www.pnp4nagios.org/nagios/pnp) performance data processing perl script \fIprocess-perfdata.pl\fR.

.SH "DATA STRUCTURE"
\fBpnpsender\fR sends the nagios environment in XML Style. 
.LP
The format is like this:
.TP
<NAGIOS>
  <NAGIOS_DATATYPE>service-perfdata</NAGIOS_DATATYPE>
  <NAGIOS_HOSTNAME>foo</NAGIOS_HOSTNAME>
  ...
.TP
</NAGIOS>
.LP

.SH "LIMITATIONS"
 
.LP
At the current development state of \fBpnpsender\fR, the complete nagios environment 
will be read in and send through a network connection \fIwithout any cryptography\fR!
.LP
Currently there is no mechanism to check if the data transfer between pnpsender and the receiver
works correct - that means if your network connection is laggy it might lead to the receiver missing 
some data needed.
.LP

.SH "FILES"
currently no files needed
.LP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
http://www.pnp4nagios.org/doku.php/nagios/pnpsender
.LP
